3. What are the subsets of SQL?
The main significant subsets of SQL are:

DDL(Data Definition Language)
DML(Data Manipulation Language)
DCL(Data Control Language)
TCL(Transaction Control Language)
Get 50% Hike!
Master Most in Demand Skills Now !

Email Address

+1  CA          CANADA
Phone Number
4. Explain the different types of SQL commands.
different types of SQL commands
Data Definition Language: DDL is that part of SQL which defines the data structure of the database in the initial stage when the database is about to be created. It is mainly used to create and restructure database objects. Commands in DDL are:
Create table
Alter table
Drop table
Data Manipulation Language: DML is used to manipulate the already existing data in the database. That is, it helps users retrieve and manipulate the data. It is used to perform operations such as inserting data into the database through the insert command, updating the data with the update command, and deleting the data from the database through the delete command.
Data Control Language: DCL is used to control access to the data in the database. DCL commands are normally used to create objects related to user access and also to control the distribution of privileges among users. The commands that are used in DCL are Grant and Revoke.
Transaction Control Language: It is used to control the changes made by DML commands. It also authorizes the statements to assemble in conjunction into logical transactions. The commands that are used in TCL are Commit, Rollback, Savepoint, Begin, and Transaction.
5. What are the different types of database management systems?
Database Management System is classified into four types:

Hierarchical database: It is a tree-like structure where the data is stored in a hierarchical format. In this database, the parent may have many children but a child should have a single parent.
Network database: It is presented as a graph that allows many-to-many relationships. This database allows children to have multiple children.
Relational database: A relational database is represented as a table. The values in the columns and rows are related to each other. It is the most widely used database because it is easy to use.
Object-Oriented database: The data values and operations are stored as objects in this database. All these objects have multiple relationships between them.
6. What are the usages of SQL?
These are the  operations that can be performed using SQL database:

Creating new databases
Inserting new data
Deleting existing data
Updating records
Retrieving the data
Creating and dropping tables
Creating functions and views
Converting data types
Career Transition

7. What is a default constraint?
